廣告有很多種,名人品牌建立是其中一種,
There are different types of advertising, and celebrity branding is one of them. 


名人變成品牌大使並使用他的社經地位來促銷或代言產品、服務或是慈善活動。
A celebrity becomes a brand ambassador and uses his or her status in society to promote or endorse a product, service or charity.


名人品牌活動可用數種不同形式進行,
 It can be taken in several different forms, 

從名人在產品、服務或慈善廣告中露臉,
from the appearance of a celebrity in advertisements for a product, service or charity,


到名人參加公關活 動、創建其個人產品線,或是使用名人名字做為品牌。
 to a celebrity attending PR events, creating his or her own line of products or services, or using his or her name as a brand.



一些歌手、模特兒、電影明星,至少會有一項掛著他/她名字的授權商品或服務。
Singers, models, and film stars may have licensed products bear their names.

啟用名人或專業運動員來做品牌活動對愛迪達或是耐吉這樣的品牌有很大的影響,
 For instance, the use of a sports professional can have an influence on a brand such as Nike and Adidas.

例如:耐吉在一九八四年時發表了籃球運動明星麥可喬登代言的空中喬丹系列,後來在行 銷上獲得大成功。
 For example, Nike launched a series of Air Jordan for basketball star Michael Jordan and gained marketing success in 1984.

一些名人的聲音辨識度高,即使他的臉不出現在螢幕上都能被認得,
Some celebrities have distinct voices that are recognizable even when faces are not visible on a screen;

因 此名人也提供廣告旁白來代言,
 therefore, they may also provide voice-overs for advertising.

如台灣名模林志玲及電視主持人利菁,她們 就有為數不少的廣告旁白作品。
 For example, the super model 0-0 and the famous TV host Li Jing in Taiwan have many ads with voice-overs only.

名人品牌活動是全球現象。
Celebrity branding is a global phenomenon.

名人享有聲譽、吸引力及大眾認可,他們大部份過著非凡的生活,
 Since celebrities enjoy reputation, attractiveness and public recognition, and most of them are associated with a remarkable life; 

因此在一些國家,如印度,更被視為半人半神崇拜著。
consequently, the public may treat them as virtual demigods in some countries such as India.


有時候名人代言也可能因訴求被誤解而有反效果，而沒能對產品有助益。
In some cases, celebrity endorsement can bring negative effects rather than enhancement for the product due to mistaken appeal.

妮可基嫚為阿提哈德航空拍的廣告就惹來不同團體的批評。
 The commercial ad that Nicole Kidman endorsed for the United Arab Emirates' Etihad Airways has brought critics from different parties.

產品形象與大眾對名人本身的身分識別有矛盾之處,使得此代言效果並不好。
 There is a conflict between the brand image and celebrity recognition. The endorsement did not go well.