
地球七大洲,將近有兩百個國家,語言、文化、種族之多，是無法一一細述瞭解的,但因現在國人常有機會至國外旅遊,即使跟團出遊,導遊不見得能二十四小時隨行照料。因此,對旅遊地點相關風俗禁忌,還是稍有了解較為妥當,以免在不經意間造成困擾。

There are nearly 200 countries in the world, and they are spread over 7 continents. It is difficult to be aware of every aspect like language,culture and race among these countries. Although people joinpackage tours overseas more frequently, the guide cannot accompanyeveryone with 24-hour service. Tourists still need to pay attention tosome related social customs or taboos in different countries for fearof causing any trouble by accident.

以國人最常出遊的亞洲為例,面積大,種族多,特別是宗教信仰多樣,影響了風俗禁忌甚極,略述一些應注意的風俗禮儀,提供參考。

Asia, for example, the most-visited destination for Taiwan tourists, isa region with a vast territory and various races, which impacts on thetaboos very much, especially in religious aspects. Some taboos areprovided as followed for reference.

印度、尼泊爾均尊牛為神聖不可侵犯的動物,盡量避免對牛攝影,開車 時要注意不可撞到牛。最特別的是,印度人回答問題時若搖頭,其實是表示肯定,而不是我們一般理解的否定,請別會錯意。尼泊爾也是一個重視牛的國家,在尼泊爾人面前應避免談到吃牛肉,如用餐時如果沒擺出刀叉,就表示要以手抓食;但左手代表不潔,應該要使用右手吃飯。

In India and Nepal, Hindus take cows as holy animals; therefore, it isprohibited to take photos of cows or to hurt them when driving on theroad. Indians express their agreement by shaking their heads insteadof nodding, which is unique and acts oppositely to general situationswhere agreement is expressed by nodding. Nepal is another countrywhich respects cows. Do not discuss issues regarding beef in front ofNepalese. Do use your hand as the cutlery when you dine if the tablesetting does not include knives and forks. Do use your right handwhen you dine because the left hand is considered filthy.

鄰近印度的斯里蘭卡,宗教信仰雖以佛教為主,但也有少數印度教、回教徒。斯里蘭卡人不喜歡被誤認為印度的一部分,旅客應多注意。

Sri Lanka, is close to India, and Buddhism is the major religion inSri Lanka though there are small portions of Hindus and Muslims.People in Sri Lanka do not like to be taken as a part of India, and thisshould be taken into account by tourists.

緬甸大多數人口信奉佛教。進入寺廟皆必須脫鞋,以示對佛陀的尊敬。觸摸別人的頭則被認為是無禮的行為,所以別碰觸小孩的頭部。在寮國,他們相信頭部是精靈寄宿的地方,所以也有這樣的禁忌。千萬別碰寮國人的頭

A large majority of the population in Myanmar practices Buddhism.To show respect for Buddha, it is necessary to remove shoes whenyou enter temples. It is considered impolite to touch the heads ofother people; therefore, do not touch a kid's head. There is a similartaboo in Lao and they believe the head is where the spirit lodges.Never touch a Lao's head.

泰國是佛教盛行的國家,有許多保障宗教的條文,僧侶恪遵小乘佛教教 我’絕對禁止接觸女性或被女性觸摸,因此女性遊客在公共場合亦應避免碰觸僧侶。 

Buddhism is prevalent in Thailand, and there are rules to governthe religion. Monks obey the doctrine of Hinayana Buddhism. It isprohibited for them to touch a female or be touched by a female.Female tourists should avoid touching monks in public.

馬來西亞國教為回教,應注意在傍晚祈禱時間內不要打擾回教徒。另外,以食指指人是一件不禮貌的行為,最好以拇指代替,觸摸小孩子的頭也 是不禮貌的行為。進入清真寺必須脫鞋,非教徒必須先得到寺方准許才可進 入;對於正在寺中祈禱的教徒,儘量不拍攝他們的照片,更不能由前方穿過

Islam is the official religion in Malaysia. Do not disturb Muslimsduring their evening prayer when you visit Malaysia. It is impolite topoint at someone with the index finger, and it is better to use a thumbinstead. As in the above situation in other countries, it is impoliteto touch a kid's head. Non-Muslim cannot enter a mosque withoutpermission. It is required that shoes be taken off before you go into amosque. Do not take photos of the people who are praying and do notwalk across the front of prayers.

印尼人大部分為回教徒,峇里島人則多數信奉印度教,對島國印尼而 言,少數民族認為照相或閃光燈是攝人靈魂的器具,拍照前最好應事先徵求 被拍攝者的同意。

Most Indonesians are Muslim; however, most Balinese believe inHindu. Some Indonesians consider cameras or flashlights as aninstrument to catch the soul of human. It is better to get permissionfrom people whom you wish to photograph.

日本是一個相當多禮的國家,拜訪友人時勿忘攜帶禮物。守時也是日本 人非常重視的觀念,與日本人相約千萬別遲到,以免讓人久候。

Japan is a nation with a very strict code of behavior and politeness.Do bring gifts when you visit Japanese friends. It is very importantto be on time in Japan. Do not be late when you have an appointmentwith a Japanese person in order to avoid keeping people waiting.